<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Nepomuk Desktop Search Configuration</title>

<authorgroup>
<author><firstname>Sebastian</firstname><surname>Trueg</surname><email>&lt;trueg@kde.org&gt;</email></author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2009-05-25</date>
<releaseinfo>1.0</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>nepomuk</keyword>
<keyword>strigi</keyword>
<keyword>desktop search</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This module allows to configure certain parts of the desktop search and the Nepomuk semantic desktop. More information
about the Nepomuk semantic desktop can be found at the <ulink url="http://nepomuk.kde.org/">Nepomuk homepage</ulink>.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="basic">
<title>Basic Settings</title>

<para>The basic settings page allows to enable or disable the semantic desktop and desktop search systems.</para>

<para>There are two checkboxes:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Enable Nepomuk Semantic Desktop:</guilabel> Enabling the Nepomuk semantic desktop means that
the Nepomuk services are running. These services provide metadata/annotation storage (files can be tagged or rated in &dolphin;
for example) but also desktop search which can be used through the &kde; runner or again &dolphin;.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Enable Strigi Desktop File Indexer:</guilabel> Enabling the Strigi desktop file indexer means that
the Nepomuk Strigi service is started in addition to the standard services already running. The Strigi service will run through
all files in the configured folders (see below) and extract metadata from them (such as title or artist on music files or even
simple things like the creation date). This metadata is then exposed through the desktop search just like the manual annotations
mentioned earlier.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Under the <guilabel>Enable Strigi Desktop File Indexer</guilabel> checkbox the current status of the Strigi service is
shown. The service has four normal operation states:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>File indexer is idle</guilabel> - The file indexer is currently not working and waiting for an event to
trigger an update (an event can be a newly created file or a changed file or a timeout for the recurring full check)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Strigi is currently indexing files in folder foobar</guilabel> - The file indexer is currently running though
all files in folder foobar and analyzes new or changed files.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Checking file system for new files</guilabel> - The file indexer is currently performing its recurring check
for new files in all index folders. This check is intended to find files that were not catched through normal file system
monitoring.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>File indexer is suspended</guilabel> - The file indexer has been suspended, i.e. it is in a paused state.
This can either be triggered by the user or due to low disk space or a laptop being in a power-saving state. In the two latter
cases the indexer will resume once the reason for the suspension has been resolved.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Apart from the normal operation states the Strigi service can have an errorneous state. There are two possibilities:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Strigi service failed to initialize, most likely due to an installation problem.</guilabel> - This should rarely
occure that means that a mandatory plugin could not be loaded. This can be due to an installation problem (missing dependancy) or due
to a faulty setup of the &kde; plugin system.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Any other error means a communication problem with the service. These errors are produced by the &DBus; subsystem and need
to be evaulated case by case.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="advanced">
<title>Advanced Settings</title>

<para>The advanced settings allow to fine tune the files and folders that are to be analyzed by the Strigi file indexer explained
above. The left panel allows to select and de-select folders that should be searched for files to be analyzed. By default the home folder
and all subfolders are analyzed. By simply unchecking a folder it can be excluded. It is also possible to include a subfolder of an
excluded one by checking it again. This allows a rather fine selection of the folders to be analyzed.</para>

<para>The right panel allows to define exclude filters. The filenames of all files found in the configured folders will be matched
against these filters. Only if none of them matches the file will be analyzed. This is very helpful to exclude log and backup files
and the like.</para>

</sect1>

</article>
