<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-09-22</date>
<releaseinfo>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>fonts</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="fonts">

<title>Fonts</title>

<para>This module is designed to allow you to easily select different
fonts for different parts of the &kde; Desktop.</para>

<para>The panel consists of different font groups to give you a lot of
flexibility in configuring your fonts: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>General:</guilabel> Used everywhere the other font
groups don't apply</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Fixed width:</guilabel> Anywhere a
non-proportional font is specified</para></listitem>

<!-- <listitem><para><guilabel>File Manager</guilabel> (Font to use in the
&kde; file manager)</para></listitem> -->

<listitem><para><guilabel>Toolbar:</guilabel> Font used in &kde; application
toolbars</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Menu:</guilabel> Font used in &kde; application
menus</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Window title:</guilabel> Font used in the window
title</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Taskbar:</guilabel> Font used in the taskbar
panel applet</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Desktop:</guilabel> Font used on the desktop 
to label icons</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

<para>Each font has a corresponding <guibutton>Choose...</guibutton>
button.  By clicking on this button, a dialog box appears.  You can
use this dialog box to choose a new font, font style, size and
character set.  Then press <guibutton>OK</guibutton>.</para>

<para>An example of the font you have chosen will be displayed in the space
between the font group name and the <guibutton>Choose...</guibutton>
button.</para>

<para>When you are done, simply click <guibutton>OK</guibutton>, and
all necessary components of &kde; will be restarted so your changes
can take affect immediately.</para>

<para>The <guibutton>Adjust All Fonts...</guibutton> button allows you to
quickly set properties for all the fonts selected
above.  A font selection dialog similar to the standard one will
appear, but you will notice checkboxes that allow you to change the
<guilabel>Font</guilabel>, <guilabel>Font style</guilabel> or 
<guilabel>Size</guilabel> independently of each other.  You can
choose any one, two, or three of these options, and they will be
applied to all the font groups.</para>

<para>For example, if you have selected several different font faces
above, and realize they are all a size too big (this often happens
when you change screen resolution, for instance), you can apply a new
font size to all the fonts, without affecting your customized font
faces and styles.</para>

<sect2 id="fonts-aa">
<title>Anti-alias text</title>

<para>To use anti-aliasing, simply place a mark in the checkbox labeled 
<guilabel>Use anti-aliasing for fonts</guilabel>.</para>

<para>Placing a mark in the checkbox will allow you to specify which range of 
fonts will <emphasis>not</emphasis> be anti-aliased.  This range is specified 
with the two combo boxes on the same line.</para>

<para>You can also choose the method that &kde; uses to create an anti-alias
look to your fonts, and how strongly it should be applied. If you are not
familiar with the individual methods, you should leave this option
alone.</para>

<!-- FIXME: Cop-out, I need to write a 'hinting and AA for beginners'
paragraph in here -->

<note><para>
The ability to use anti-aliased fonts and icons requires that you have
support in both X and the &Qt; toolkit, that you have suitable fonts
installed, and that you are using the built-in font serving capabilities
of the X server.  If you still are having problems, please contact the
appropriate &kde; mailing list, or check the
<acronym>FAQ</acronym>.</para></note>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
