<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&systemsettings;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdebase-workspace">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>
<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &systemsettings; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
&Richard.Johnson;
&Richard.Johnson.mail;
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2007</year>
<holder>&Richard.Johnson;</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2008-05-26</date>
<releaseinfo>1.01.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
This documentation describes &kde;&apos;s system configuration and administration center.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>System</keyword>
<keyword>Settings</keyword>
<keyword>configuration</keyword>
<keyword>administration</keyword>
<keyword>config</keyword>
<keyword>admin</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
The &kde; &systemsettings; provides the user with a centralized and convenient way to configure all of the &kde; settings.
</para>

<para>
&systemsettings; is made up of multiple modules. Each module is a separate application, however the &kde; &systemsettings; organizes all of these applications into a single location.
</para>

<tip>
<para>
Each &systemsettings; module can be executed individually
</para>
<para>
See section entitled <link linkend="run-modules-individually">Running
individual &systemsettings; modules</link> for more information.
</para>
</tip>

<para>
&systemsettings; groups all of the configuration modules into two basic categories:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><link linkend="general">General</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="advanced">Advanced</link></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>
The modules that make up &systemsettings; fall under one of the above categories, making it easier to locate the correct configuration module.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="using-kapp">
<title>Using &systemsettings;</title>

<para>
This section details the use of &systemsettings; itself. For information on each individual module, please see <link linkend="modules">&systemsettings; Modules</link>.
</para>

<sect1 id="starting">
<title>Starting &systemsettings;</title>

<para>
The &kde; &systemsettings; can be started in one of three ways:
</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
By selecting <menuchoice><guimenu>K Button</guimenu><guisubmenu>Applications</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>System Settings</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
  By pressing <keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>. This will bring up the <application>KRunner</application> dialog. Type <command>system settings</command>, and click <guibutton>Launch</guibutton>.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Type <command>systemsettings &amp;</command> at any command prompt.
</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>
All three of these methods are equivalent, and produce the same result.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="screen">
<title>The &kde; &systemsettings; Screen</title>

<para>
When you start &systemsettings;, you are presented with a window, which is divided into three functional parts.
</para>

<para>
Across the top is a toolbar. The toolbar provides the user with the ability to go back into the main view from within a module, or to search for something within all of the modules.
</para>

<para>
Underneath the toolbar are two tabs, <link linkend="general">General</link> and <link linkend="advanced">Advanced</link>.
</para>

<para>
Underneath the tabs is an icon view of the individual modules that make up &systemsettings;.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="general">
<title>&systemsettings; General Tab</title>

<para>
The <guilabel>General</guilabel> tab consists of modules that allow you to make changes to typical &kde; settings. This section is divided into the following subsections:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Look &amp; Feel</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This section covers the settings related to configuring the way you want your &kde; system to look and feel. Settings include the appearance, desktop, notification, and window behavior customizations.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Personal</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This section covers the settings related to the user. Settings include personal information about the user, accessibility, default applications, as well as regional and language settings.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Network &amp; Connectivity</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This section covers the settings related to network and sharing configuration.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Computer Administration</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This section covers the settings related to typical system administration. Settings include data and time, display, fonts, game controllers, keyboard and mouse, as well as system sound.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="advanced">
<title>&systemsettings; Advanced Tab</title>

<para>
The <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab consists of modules that allow you to make changes to more advanced &kde; settings. This section is divided into the following subsections:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Advanced User Settings</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This section covers the settings related to the more advanced system settings for the user. Settings include digital cameras, file associations, input actions, resources, services, sessions, and hardware management.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>System</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This sections covers the settings related to specific system settings such as configuration of the login manager.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="exiting">
<title>Exiting the &kde; &systemsettings;</title>

<para>
&systemsettings; can be exited in one of two ways:
</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Press <keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo> on the keyboard.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
click on the Close button located in the top right hand corner of the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="run-modules-individually">
<title>Running Individual &systemsettings; Modules</title>

<para>
Individual modules can be run without running &systemsettings; using the command <command>kcmshell</command> from the command line. Type <command>kcmshell --list</command> to see a list of the available &kde; &systemsettings; modules.
</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="modules">
<title>The &kde; &systemsettings; Modules</title>

<para>
In order to make it as easy as possible, the &kde; &systemsettings; has organized options into <link linkend="general">General</link> and <link linkend="advanced">Advanced</link> categories. In the main window, under each category, there are icons grouped together under subcategories. Each icon is called a module. When you click on a module icon, you will be presented with the options of the module in the main window.
</para>

<para>
Each module will have some or all of the following buttons:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Help</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This button will provide help specific to the current module. Clicking the button will open &khelpcenter; in a new window providing detailed information on the module.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Defaults</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Clicking this button will restore this module to its default values. You much click <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to save the options.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Reset</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This button will &quot;Reset&quot; the module to the previous settings.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Apply</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Clicking this button will save all changes to &kde;. If you have changed anything, clicking <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> will cause the changes to take effect.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<note>
<para>
You must either &quot;Reset&quot; or &quot;Apply&quot; the any changes before changing to another module.
</para>
<para>
If you try to change without saving or resetting your options, you will be asked if you want to save your changes, or discard them.
</para>
</note>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&systemsettings;
</para>
<para>
Program copyright 2007 Benjamin C. Meyer.
</para>
<para>
Contributors:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Will Stephenson <email>wstepheson@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Michael D. Stemle, Jr. <email>manchicken@notsosoft.net</email>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Matthias Kretz <email>kretz@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
&Daniel.Molkentin; &Daniel.Molkentin.mail;
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
&Matthias.Elter; &Matthias.Elter.mail;
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Frans Englich <email>englich@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Michael Jansen <email>kde@michael-jansen.biz</email>
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>
Documentation Copyright &copy; 2008 &Richard.Johnson; &Richard.Johnson.mail;
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;
</chapter>

&documentation.index;
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=2:shiftwidth=2:expandtab
kate: space-indent on; indent-width 2; tab-width 2; indent-mode none;
-->
