<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-10-19</date>
<releaseinfo>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>clock</keyword>
<keyword>date</keyword>
<keyword>time</keyword>
<keyword>set</keyword>
<keyword>configure</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="datetime">

<title>Date &amp; Time</title>

<para>You can use this module to alter the system date and time, using a
convenient graphical interface.</para>

<note><para>You must have system administrator (<systemitem
class="username">root</systemitem>) access to change the system date and
time.  If you do not have this access level, this module will only show
you the current settings.</para></note>

<para>When you first start, you are in display mode only.  To modify
your settings, click on <guibutton>Administrator Mode</guibutton>.  If
you are logged in as <systemitem class="username">root</systemitem>,
you will go straight to the change dialog.  If not, &kde; will ask for
a superuser password.</para>

<sect2 id="date-change">
<title>Modifying your settings</title>

<para>You set the date using the left half of the module.  Simply
choose your month (the drop down box at the top), year (the spin box
at the top), and the day of the month (simply click on the day in the
calendar).</para>

<para>You set the time using the spin boxes at the bottom of the clock.
You can also directly enter your value.</para>

<note><para>The time is represented in 24 hour format.  If you want
the system time to be set to 8:00 PM, you need to set the hour spinbox
to <guilabel>20</guilabel> (8 + 12).  If you want the system time set
to 8:00 AM, you should set the hour spinbox to
<guilabel>8</guilabel>.</para></note>

<para>To set a new time zone, simply select one from
the drop down box at the bottom.</para>

<para>When you have set the correct date and time, simply click
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to make the changes permanent.</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
