<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>
<article>
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Richard.Johnson;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2007-07-29</date>
<releaseinfo>1.01.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>KCMDisplay</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="kcmdisplay">
<title><guilabel>Monitor &amp; Display</guilabel></title>

<para>
This module allows you to change the various monitor and display settings.
</para>

<para>
Changes in this module are stored in <filename>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</filename>
and are the main settings that control the refresh rate, resolution, color,
power saving, and driver configuration. This module is separated into four
sections:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Size, Orientation, &amp; Positioning (see <xref
linkend="kcmdisplay-size" />)
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Color &amp; Gamma (see <xref linkend="kcmdisplay-color" />)
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Hardware (see <xref linkend="kcmdisplay-hw" />)
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Power saving (see <xref linkend="kcmdisplay-pwrsav" />)
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<sect2 id="kcmdisplay-size">
<title><guilabel>Size, Orientation, &amp; Position</guilabel></title>

<para>
This section allows you to configure the <guilabel>Screen size</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Refresh</guilabel>, <guilabel>Monitor Orientation</guilabel>, as well
as a <guilabel>Second screen</guilabel> if you have one installed.
</para>

<variablelist><title><guilabel>Monitor Orientation</guilabel></title>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Normal</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is the default setting and the most common setting. This will cause your
desktop to be displayed horizontally.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Left edge on top</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This setting will allow you to rotate your desktop ninety degrees clockwise, or
to the right. Screen resolutions are greater horizontally, so this setting is
used mostly for people who write often and need a page to be displayed longer
than it would be in the <guilabel>Normal</guilabel> orientation.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Right edge on top</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is the same as the previous, <guilabel>Left edge on top</guilabel>,
however it rotates your desktop ninety degrees counter-clockwise, or to the
left.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Upsidedown</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This option flips your desktop orientation horizontally, making the desktop
appear upside down. This is used if you were to mount your monitor upside down
from a shelving unit or such. After doing so, selecting this will make your
desktop appear correctly and not upside down.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist><title><guilabel>Second screen</guilabel></title>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Clone primary screen</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This option puts your desktop on both displays.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Dual screen</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This option extends your desktop to another screen providing you with double
the amount of workspace.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist><title><guilabel>Screen size</guilabel></title>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This side of the slider provides a lower resolution.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Higher</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This side of the slider provides a higher resolution.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist><title><guilabel>Resolution</guilabel></title>
<varlistentry><term>Dropdown dialog</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This dropdown selection allows you to select a proper resolution. Depending on
your monitor, you may only have one selection.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="kcmdisplay-color">
<title><guilabel>Color &amp; Gamma</guilabel></title>

<para>
This section allows you to configure the color calibration of your display by
utilizing a pre-configured setting or by your own custom setting. Unless you are
sure about what settings you need, the default color and gamma is usually the
best.
</para>

<tip><title><guilabel>Color calibration image</guilabel></title>
<para>
Gamma controls how your monitor displays colors.
</para>
<para>
For accurate color reproduction, adjust the gamma correction sliders until the
squares blend into the background as much as possible.
</para>
</tip>

<variablelist><title><guilabel>Screen</guilabel></title>
<varlistentry><term>Dropdown dialog</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This option allows you to select the screen you would like to configure. You
will only have <guilabel>Screen 1</guilabel> as a selection unless you have
more than one display.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist><title><guilabel>Gamma correction</guilabel></title>
<varlistentry><term>All</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This slider allows you to control the red, green, and blue colors at one time
in unison.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Red</guilabel></term>
<term><guilabel>Green</guilabel></term>
<term><guilabel>Blue</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This selection allows you independently change each color setting to your
preference.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist><title><guilabel>Target gamma</guilabel></title>
<varlistentry><term>Dropdown dialog</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This dropdown dialog allows you to select from various pre-configured settings
which are considered an industry standard in some aspects.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="kcmdisplay-hw">
<title><guilabel>Hardware</guilabel></title>

<para>
This section allows you to configure hardware and driver settings for your
graphics card(s) as well as monitor(s).
</para>

<note><title>Administrative access</title>
<para>
In order to make changes to this section, you will need to press the
<guibutton>Administrator Mode</guibutton> button and enter your user password
when prompted. You will notice that your <guibutton>Configure...</guibutton>
buttons will become available.
</para>
</note>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-hw-gfx">
<title><guilabel>Graphics card</guilabel></title>

<para>
This subsection will allow you to view your <guilabel>Graphics card</guilabel>
and <guilabel>Driver</guilabel> as well as configure this hardware by pressing
the <guibutton>Configure...</guibutton> button.
</para>

<sect4 id="kcmdisplay-hw-gfx-conf">
<title><guilabel>Choose Graphics Card</guilabel> Dialog</title>

<para>
In this dialog you can select your graphics card and if applicable you will be
able to select either a <guilabel>Standard</guilabel> or
<guilabel>Proprietary</guilabel> driver solution and select the amount of
<guilabel>Video RAM</guilabel> necessary.
</para>

<para>
Once you choose a graphics card from the list, press the
<guibutton>Select</guibutton> button to select and load the card and driver.
</para>
</sect4>

<sect4 id="kcmdisplay-hw-mon-conf">
<title><guilabel>Choose Monitor</guilabel> Dialog</title>

<para>
In this dialog you can select your monitor as well as your image format. You
can attempt to use the <guibutton>Detect Monitor</guibutton> button in order to
automatically locate and configure your monitor. If this option doesn't work,
you can manually select the monitor from the list. In the <guilabel>Image
format</guilabel> dropdown, you can select from <guimenuitem>Standard
4:3</guimenuitem> or <guimenuitem>Widescreen 16:9</guimenuitem>.
</para>
</sect4>
</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kcmdisplay-pwrsav">
<title><guilabel>Power saving</guilabel></title>

<para>
In this section you have the option of enabling or disabling power saving for
your monitor as well as setting the amount of time in which after it has
reached, the monitor will switch off.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>
</article>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=2:shiftwidth=2:expandtab
kate: space-indent on; indent-width 2; tab-width 2; indent-mode none;
-->