<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author>&Jost.Schenck; &Jost.Schenck.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2005-02-20</date>
<releaseinfo>3.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>desktop</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="desktop">

<title>Desktop</title>

<sect2 id="desktop-appearance">
<title><guilabel>Appearance Tab</guilabel></title>

<para>Here you can configure how icons on your desktop appear.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Standard font:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This option can be used to change the typeface used on the
desktop.  Simply select your typeface from the dropdown box.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Font size:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>You can change the relative size of the text on the Desktop.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Normal text color:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This option lets you select the color of normal (or
unhighlighted) text.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Text background color:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This option lets you select the background color of
normal text.  If left unchecked, the text has a transparent
background.  If selected, you can choose the color by pressing the button.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Underline filenames:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Determines if file names are underlined on the
Desktop.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="desktop-number">
<title><guilabel>Multiple Desktops</guilabel></title>

<para>&kde; offers you the possibility to have several virtual
desktops. In this tab you can configure the number of desktops as well
as their names. Just use the slider to adjust the number of
desktops. You can assign names to the desktops by entering text into the
text fields below.</para> 

<para>If you enable <guilabel>Mouse wheel over desktop switches
desktop</guilabel> then scrolling the wheel over an empty space on the
desktop will change to the next virtual desktop numerically, in the
direction you scrolled (either up or down).</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
