<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>
	
<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Window Rules</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2010-05-31</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.5</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>window settings</keyword>
<keyword>window placement</keyword>
<keyword>window size</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="window-specific">
<title>Window Specific Settings</title>

<para>Here you can customize window settings specifically only for
some windows.</para>

<note>
<para>Please note that this configuration will not take effect if you
do not use &kwin; as your window manager. If you do use a different
window manager, please refer to its documentation for how to customize
window behavior.</para>
</note>

<para>Many of the settings you can configure here are those you can
configure on a global basis in the <guilabel>Window Behavior</guilabel>
&systemsettings; module, however some of them are even more detailed.</para>

<para>They encompass geometry, placement, whether a window should be
kept above or below others, focus stealing prevention, and translucency
settings.</para>

<para>You can access this module in two ways: from the titlebar of the
application you wish to configure, or from the &systemsettings;.  If you
start it from within &systemsettings; you can use the
<guibutton>New...</guibutton> to create a window profile, and the
<guibutton>Detect Window Properties</guibutton> button on the resulting dialog to
partially fill in the required information for the application
you wish to configure.</para>

<para>You can also at any time <guibutton>Modify...</guibutton> or
<guibutton>Delete</guibutton> any stored settings profile, and
reorder the list.  Reordering the list using the <guibutton>Move Up</guibutton>
and <guibutton>Move Down</guibutton> buttons is a convenience to help you sort
the profiles, and has no effect on how they are applied.</para>

</sect1>

</article>
