<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<!--copy from r308626 Tue May 4 17:11:51 2004 UTC -->

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author>&Jost.Schenck; &Jost.Schenck.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2008-07-27</date>
<releaseinfo>4.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>system settings</keyword>
<keyword>actions</keyword>
<keyword>window placement</keyword>
<keyword>window size</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="window-behavior">
<title>Window Behavior</title>

<para> In the upper part of this control module you can see several
tabs: <guilabel>Focus</guilabel>, <guilabel>Titlebar Actions</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Window Actions</guilabel>, <guilabel>Moving</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Advanced</guilabel>. In the
<guilabel>Focus</guilabel> panel you can configure how windows gain or
lose focus, &ie; become active or inactive.  Using
<guilabel>Titlebar Actions</guilabel> and <guilabel>Window Actions</guilabel>
you can configure how titlebars and windows react to
mouse clicks. <guilabel>Moving</guilabel> allows you to configure how
windows move and place themselves when started.  The
<guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> options cover some specialized options
involving moving windows between desktops and <quote>window
shading</quote>.
</para>

<note>
<para>
Please note that the configuration in this module will not take effect
if you don not use &kde;'s native window manager, &kwin;. If you do use a
different window manager, please refer to its documentation for how to
customize window behavior.
</para>
</note>

<sect2 id="action-focus">
<title>Focus</title>

<para>
The <quote>focus</quote> of the desktop refers to the window which the
user is currently working on. The window with focus is often referred to
as the <quote>active window</quote>.
</para>

<para>Focus does not necessarily mean the window is the one at the
front &mdash; this is referred to as <quote>raised</quote>, and
although this is configured here as well, focus and raising of windows
are configured independently.</para>

<sect3 id="action-focus-focuspolicy">
<title>Focus Policy</title>

<para>
There are four methods &kde; can use to determine the current focus:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Click to Focus</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
A window becomes active when you click into it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Focus Follows Mouse</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Moving the mouse pointer actively over a normal window activates it. New
windows such as the mini command line invoked with
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> will receive the focus,
without you having to point the mouse at them explicitly.
</para>

<para>
In other window managers, this is sometimes known as <quote>Sloppy focus
follows mouse</quote>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Focus Under Mouse</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
The window that happens to be under the mouse pointer becomes active.  If
the mouse is not over a window (for instance, it's on the desktop) the last
window that was under the mouse has focus.  New windows such as the mini
command line invoked with <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> will
not receive the focus, you must move the mouse over them to type.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Focus Strictly Under Mouse</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Similar to <guilabel>Focus Under Mouse</guilabel>, but even more
strict with its interpretation.  Only the window under the mouse pointer is
active.  If the mouse pointer is not over a window, no window has focus.
New windows such as the mini command line invoked with
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> will not receive the focus,
you must move the mouse over them to type. 
</para>

<note><para>Note that <guilabel>Focus Under Mouse</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Focus Strictly Under Mouse</guilabel> prevent certain
features, such as the <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Tab;</keycombo>
walk-through-windows dialog, from working properly.</para>
</note>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>
Once you have determined the focus policy, there are the window
raising options.
</para>

<para>
By placing a mark in front of <guilabel>Auto raise</guilabel>, &kde; can
bring a window to the front if the mouse is over that window for a
specified period of time.  This is very useful with the <guilabel>Focus
Follows Mouse</guilabel> option.  You can determine the delay by using
the slider bar/spin box combination.
</para>

<tip>
<para>
Setting the delay too short will cause a rapid fire changing of
windows, which can be quite distracting.  Most people will like a delay
of 100-300 ms.  This is responsive, but it will let you slide over the
corners of a window on your way to your destination without bringing
that window to the front.  
</para>
</tip>

<para>
If you do not use <guilabel>Auto raise</guilabel>, make sure the
<guilabel>Click raise active window</guilabel> option has a mark in front of it.  You
will not be happy with both <guilabel>Auto raise</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Click raise active window</guilabel> disabled, the net effect is that
windows are not raised at all.
</para>

</sect3>


<sect3 id="action-focus-keyboard">
<title><guilabel>Navigation</guilabel></title>

<para>
In the <guilabel>Navigation</guilabel> frame you can configure the way
switching between applications or desktops using <keycombo
action="simul"> &Alt;&Tab;</keycombo> or <keycombo
action="simul"> &Ctrl;&Tab;</keycombo>.
</para>

<para>
Switching applications using <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
&Tab;</keycombo>, &ie; holding down &Alt; while
repeatedly pressing the &Tab; key, can take place in
&kde; mode or in &CDE; mode: in &kde; mode you will see
a box in the middle of the screen showing you the currently selected
application while you are still holding down the &Alt; key. In
&CDE; mode focus goes to each new window as it's selected.
</para>

<para>
<!-- <guilabel>Show window list while switching windows</guilabel> missing-->
Next there is an option where you can choose to <guilabel>Traverse
windows on all desktops</guilabel> or not.  With this enabled, switching
windows with <keycombo action="simul">
&Alt;&Tab;</keycombo> will show all windows, on all
desktops, and take you to the appropriate desktop for the window you
select.  With it disabled, only windows on your current desktop are
selectable with <keycombo action="simul">
&Alt;&Tab;</keycombo>, and you must use <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Tab;</keycombo> to switch to other
desktops yourself.
</para>

<para>If you check the <guilabel>Desktop navigation wraps
around</guilabel> checkbox, then after you reach the
<quote>last</quote> desktop, pressing &Tab; again will
select the first desktop again.</para>

<para>Many people name their virtual desktops according to their
purpose or some other naming scheme.  You may find it convenient to
select the <guilabel>Popup desktop name on desktop switch</guilabel>,
so you can quickly tell that you have switched to the right one.</para>


</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="titlebar-actions">
<title>Titlebar Actions</title>

<para>
In this panel you can configure what happens to windows when a mouse is
clicked on there titlebars.
</para>

<sect3 id="action-actions-sec1">
<title><guilabel>Titlebar double-click</guilabel></title>

<para>
In this drop down box you can select either
<guilabel>Shade</guilabel>, several variations of
<guilabel>Maximize</guilabel> or <guilabel>Lower</guilabel>.
</para>

<para>
Selecting <guilabel>Maximize</guilabel> causes &kde; to maximize the
window whenever you doubleclick on the titlebar. You can further
choose to maximize windows only horizontally or only
vertically.</para>

<para><guilabel>Shade</guilabel>, on the other hand, causes the window to be
reduced to simply the titlebar.  Double clicking on the titlebar again,
restores the window to its normal size.
</para>

<!-- <guilabel>Titlebar wheel event</guilabel> missing -->
<tip>
<para>
You can have windows automatically unshade when you simply place the
mouse over their shaded titlebar. Just check the <guilabel>Enable
hover</guilabel> check box in the <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab of
this module.  This is a great way to reclaim desktop space when you are
cutting and pasting between a lot of windows, for example.
</para>
</tip>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="action-actions-sec2">
<title><guilabel>Titlebar &amp; Frame</guilabel></title>

<para>
This section allows you to determine what happens when you single click
on the titlebar or frame of a window.  Notice that you can have
different actions associated with the same click depending on whether
the window is active or not.
</para>

<para> For each combination of mousebuttons, modifiers, Active and
Inactive, you can select the most appropriate choice.  The actions are
as follows: </para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Make this window active.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will move this window to the bottom of the display.  This will get the
window out of the way.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nothing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Just like it says.  Nothing happens.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Operations Menu</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will bring up a small submenu, where you can choose window related
commands (&ie; Maximize, Minimize, Close, &etc;).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will bring the window to the top of the display.  All other windows
which overlap with this one, will be hidden <quote>below</quote> it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Toggle Raise &amp; Lower</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This will raise windows which are not on top, and lower windows which
are already on top.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="window-actions">
<title>Window Actions</title>

<sect3 id="action-actions-sec3">
<title><guilabel>Inactive Inner Window</guilabel></title>

<para>
This part of the module, allows you to configure what happens when you
click on an inactive window, with any of the three mouse buttons.
</para>

<para>
Your choices are as follows:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate, Raise &amp; Pass Click</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This makes the clicked window active, raises it to the top of the
display, and passes a mouse click to the application within the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate &amp; Pass Click</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This makes the clicked window active and passes a mouse click to the
application within the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This simply makes the clicked window active.  The mouse click is not
passed on to the application within the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate &amp; Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This makes the clicked window active and raises the window to the top of
the display.  The mouse click is not passed on to the application within
the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="action-actions-sec4">
<title><guilabel>Inner Window, Titlebar &amp; Frame</guilabel></title>

<para>
This bottom section, allows you to configure additional actions, when
a modifier key (by default &Alt;) is pressed, and a mouse click is
made on a window.</para>

<para>
Once again, you can select different actions for
<mousebutton>Left</mousebutton>, <mousebutton>Middle</mousebutton> and
<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> button clicks.
</para>

<para>Your choices are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will move this window to the bottom of the display.  This will get the
window out of the way.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Move</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Allows you to drag the selected window around the desktop.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nothing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Just like it says.  Nothing happens.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will bring the window to the top of the display.  All other windows
which overlap with this one, will be hidden <quote>below</quote> it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Resize</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Allows you to change the size of the selected window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Toggle Raise &amp; Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This will raise windows which are not on top, and lower windows which
are already on top.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="action-moving">
<title>Moving</title>

<sect3>
<title><guilabel>Windows</guilabel></title>

<para>The options here determine how windows appear on screen when you
are moving them.  Most of these options exact a price in performance,
so if you want to streamline your desktop, you should turn them off.
However, if you have a fast computer, they may make your day a little
more pleasant, so leave them on.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Display content in moving windows</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable this option if you want a window's content to be fully
shown while moving it, instead of just showing a window
<quote>skeleton</quote>.  The result may not be satisfying on slow
computers without graphic acceleration.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Display content in resizing windows</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable this option if you want a window's content to be shown
while resizing it, instead of just showing a window
<quote>skeleton</quote>.  The result, again, may not be satisfying on
slower computers.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Display window geometry when moving or
resizing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable this option if you want a popup tooltip to tell you the
size in pixels of a window as you resize it.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Allow moving and resizing of maximized windows</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When enabled, this feature activates the border of maximized
windows, and allows you to move or resize them just as you can normal
windows.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Placement:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>The placement policy determines where a new window will appear
on the desktop.  <guilabel>Smart</guilabel> will try to achieve a minimum
overlap of windows, <guilabel>Cascade</guilabel> will cascade the
windows, and <guilabel>Random</guilabel> will use a random
position.  <guilabel>Centered</guilabel> will open all new windows in
the center of the screen, and <guilabel>Zero-Cornered</guilabel> will
open all windows with their top left corner in the top left corner of
the screen.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3>
<title><guilabel>Snap Zones</guilabel></title>

<para>The rest of this page allows you to configure the <guilabel>Snap
Zones</guilabel>.  These are like a magnetic field along the side of
the desktop and each window, which will make windows snap alongside
when moved near.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Border snap zone:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>Here you can set the snap zone for screen borders.  Moving a
window within the configured distance will make it snap to the edge of
the desktop.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Window snap zone:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>Here you can set the snap zone for windows.  As with screen
borders, moving a window near to another will make it snap to the edge
as if the windows were magnetized.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!-- Center snap zone:  missing-->

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Snap windows only when overlapping</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>If checked, windows will not snap together if they are only near
each other, they must be overlapping, by the configured amount or
less.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="action-advanced">
<title>Advanced</title>

<para>
In the <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> panel you can do more advanced fine
tuning to the window behavior.
</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Shading</title>

<!--varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Animate</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is enabled,  shading, or rolling up a window until just
the title bar is shown, will be animated.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry-->

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable hover</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is enabled, a shaded window will un-shade automatically
when the mouse pointer has been over the titlebar for some time. Use
the slider to configure the delay un-shading.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>Finally, you can configure <guilabel>Active Desktop
Borders</guilabel>.  If this is enabled, moving the mouse to a screen
border will change your desktop.  This is useful if you want to drag
windows from one desktop to another.</para>

<para>You can set this option to <guilabel>Disabled</guilabel>, which
is the default, to <guilabel>Only when moving windows</guilabel>, or
to <guilabel>Always enabled</guilabel> in which case just pushing your
mouse against the side of the screen will switch you to a new
desktop.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>