<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2005-02-20</date>
<releaseinfo>3.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>style</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="style">
<title>Style</title>

<sect2 id="style-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This module is used to configure how the individual widgets are
drawn by &kde;.</para>

<note><para>A <emphasis>Widget</emphasis> is a commonly-used
programmer's term for referring to User Interface elements such as
buttons, menus, and scroll bars.  You can think of them as the
fundamental pieces that are assembled to make your
application.</para></note>

<para>You can configure how the widgets are drawn with this module,
but to change the color of the widgets, you should refer to the
section entitled <ulink
url="help:/kcontrol/color/index.html">Colors</ulink>.</para>

<para>This panel is divided into three tabs:  <guilabel>Style</guilabel>, 
<guilabel>Effects</guilabel>, <guilabel>Toolbar</guilabel>.</para>

<sect3 id="style-style">
<title><guilabel>Style</guilabel> tab</title>

<para>The top list box, labeled <guilabel>Widget Style</guilabel> 
contains a list of the pre-defined styles.
Each style has a name, and a brief description.</para>

<para>To change styles, simply click on the style name, and a preview 
of the style will be displayed in the preview box below the style list.</para>

<para>The other options available here are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Show icons on buttons</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is selected, action buttons (like <guibutton>OK</guibutton> and 
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton>) will have a small icon located within them to act
as a visual reference.  If this option is not selected, then only  text
will appear on the button.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Enable tooltips</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will toggle tooltips off and on.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 
</variablelist>
<!-- 
<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Menubar on the top of
the screen in the style of MacOS</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will turn on a menubar at the top of the screen.
This menubar will reflect the menu options of the active
application.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 
</variablelist>
-->
</sect3>

<sect3 id="style-effects">
<title><guilabel>Effects</guilabel> tab</title>

<para>If you click on the <guilabel>Effects</guilabel> tab, you will see the panel is divided 
into two sections.</para>
<para>At the top of the first section, is a checkbox labeled <guilabel>Enable 
GUI effects</guilabel>.  If there is no mark in front of this checkbox, then all 
visual effects of this panel are disabled.  To edit any of these effects, simply 
place a mark in this checkbox.</para>

<para>Below that checkbox, are the following choices: </para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Combobox effect:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This combobox has two options.  If this option is set to <guilabel>Animate</guilabel> 
then when a combo box is selected, it will appear to scroll down.  If <guilabel>Disable</guilabel> 
is selected, then the combobox list appears instantly.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Tool tip effect:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This combobox has three options.  If this option is set to <guilabel>Animate</guilabel> 
then when a tool tip appears, it will have a short animation.  If <guilabel>Fade</guilabel> is 
selected, the tool tip appears to fade from the background.  If <guilabel>Disable</guilabel> 
is selected, then the tool tip appears instantly.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Menu effect:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This combobox has four options.  If this option is set to <guilabel>Animate</guilabel> 
then when a menu list appears, it will appear to scroll downward.  If <guilabel>Fade</guilabel> is 
selected, the menu list appears to fade from the background.  If <guilabel>Make Transparent</guilabel> 
is selected, the menu list will have a transparent look to it.  The details of that transparency is 
configured in the next part of the dialog.  If <guilabel>Disable</guilabel> 
is selected, then the menu list appears instantly.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Menu tear-off handles:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this option is set to <guilabel>Disable</guilabel>, then no menus can be separated 
from the application. If <guilabel>Application Level</guilabel> is selected, then it is left up 
to each individual application to determine which menus can be torn separated from the application.</para>
<note><para>Many applications do not have tear off menus.  You cannot tell &kde; to force an 
application to allow tear off menus.  This is determined by the authors of the application.</para></note></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>The next checkbox, labeled <guilabel>Menu drop shadow</guilabel> is used to toggle the drop shadow behind all 
&kde; menus.  A drop shadow is a dark, soft line on the bottom and right sides of the menu, which give the menus the 
appearance that the menu is lifted off the application, and the menu is creating a shadow on the application.</para>

<para>The next section only applies if the combobox labeled <guilabel>Menu Effect</guilabel> is set to 
<guilabel>Make Transparent</guilabel>.  You can use the combo box labeled <guilabel>Menu transparency type:</guilabel> 
to select the method &kde; uses to generate the transparency.  You can use the slider to determine the level of 
transparency in menus.  A preview is visible on the right side of this section.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="style-misc">
<title><guilabel>Toolbar</guilabel> tab</title>

<variablelist> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Highlight buttons under mouse.</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If there is a mark in this checkbox, when the mouse pointer is above a toolbar 
button, that button will be highlighted with a square around the button.  This is a good visual 
indicator of which button will be selected with a mouse click.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Transparent toolbars when moving</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>As the title suggests, if this option is selected, the toolbars will be transparent when 
you are moving them around on the screen.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Text position</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This combo box lets you determine where on the button the text name of the button will appear as the default.  
If <guilabel>Icon Only</guilabel> is selected, then there is no text on the toolbar buttons.  If  <guilabel>Text Only</guilabel> is selected, then the button's icon is replaced with a text name of  the button. If <guilabel>Text Alongside Icons</guilabel> is selected, then the name of the button will be placed to the <emphasis>right</emphasis> of the icon. If <guilabel>Text Under Icons</guilabel> is selected, the default will be to have the text of the button <emphasis>below</emphasis> the icon.</para>
<tip><para>This option only specifies the <emphasis>default</emphasis> location.  Each application can override the setting used in this panel.</para></tip>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
