<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article>
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>	
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2005-12-21</date>
<releaseinfo>3.01.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>accessibility</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="accessibility">
<title>Accessibility</title>
<sect2 id="accessibility-intro">

<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This module is designed to help users who have difficulty hearing
audible cues, or who have difficulty using a keyboard.  </para>

<para>
The module is divided into two tabs: <link
linkend="access-bell"><guilabel>Bell</guilabel></link> and <link
linkend="access-kb"><guilabel>Keyboard</guilabel></link>.
</para>

<sect3 id="access-bell">
<title><guilabel>Bell</guilabel></title>

<para>
This panel is divided into an <guilabel>Audible Bell</guilabel> section
and a <guilabel>Visible Bell</guilabel> section.
</para>

<para>
The top check box labeled <guilabel>Use System Bell</guilabel>, determines
whether the normal System bell rings.  If this option is disabled, the
System bell will be silenced.
</para>

<para>
The next check box down can be used to play a different sound whenever
the system bell is triggered.  To activate, place a mark in the check
box labeled <guilabel>Use customized bell</guilabel>, and enter the
complete pathname to the sound file in the text box labeled
<guilabel>Sound to Play</guilabel>.  If you want, you can select the
<guibutton>Browse</guibutton> button to navigate through your filesystem
to find the exact file.
</para>

<para>
For those users who have difficulty hearing the System bell, or those
users who have a silent computer, &kde; offers the <emphasis>visible bell</emphasis>.  This
provides a visual signal (inverting the screen or flashing a color
across it) when the system bell would normally sound.
</para>

<para>
To use the visible bell, first place a mark in the check box labeled
<guilabel>Use visible bell</guilabel>.
</para>

<para>
You can then select between <guilabel>Invert screen</guilabel>, or
<guilabel>Flash screen</guilabel>.  If you select <guilabel>Invert
screen</guilabel>, all colors on the screen will be reversed.  If you
choose <guilabel>Flash screen</guilabel>, you can choose the color by
clicking the button to the right of the <guilabel>Flash
screen</guilabel> selection.
</para>

<para>
The slider bar can be used to adjust the duration of the visible
bell.  The default value is 500ms, or half a second.
</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="access-kb">
<title><guilabel>Keyboard</guilabel></title>

<para>There are three sections to this panel.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use Sticky Keys</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is enabled, you can press and release the &Shift;,
&Alt; or &Ctrl; keys, and then press another key to get a key combo
(example: <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; &Alt;
<keycap>Del</keycap></keycombo> could be done with &Ctrl; then &Alt;
then <keycap>Del</keycap>).
</para>

<para>
Also in this section is a check box labeled <guilabel>Lock Sticky
Keys</guilabel>.  If this check box is enabled, the &Alt;, &Ctrl;
and &Shift; keys stay <quote>selected</quote> until you
<quote>de-selected</quote> them.
</para>

<para>
As an example:
</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>With <guilabel>Lock Sticky Keys</guilabel> disabled:</term>
<listitem>
<para>If you press the &Shift; key then press the
<keycap>F</keycap> key, the computer interprets this as <keycombo
action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>.  Now if you
type a <keycap>P</keycap>, the computer interprets this as the letter p
(no shift).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>With <guilabel>Lock Sticky Keys</guilabel> enabled:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
If you press the &Shift; key <emphasis>twice</emphasis> then press the <keycap>F</keycap> key,
the computer interprets this as <keycombo
action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>.  Now if you
type a <keycap>p</keycap>, the computer interprets this as the letter P
(<keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>). To
de-select the &Shift; key, press it again.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Slow keys</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is enabled, you must hold the key down for a
specified length of time (adjustable with the slider) before the
keystroke will be accepted. This helps prevent accidental key strokes.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Bounce keys</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is enabled, you must wait for a specified length of time
(configurable with the slider) before the next key press can be
accepted. This prevents accidental multiple key strokes.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
