<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author>&Mark.Donohoe; &Mark.Donohoe.mail;</author>
<author>&Martin.R.Jones; &Martin.R.Jones.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-09-22</date>
<releaseinfo>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>color</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="color">

<title>Colors</title>
<sect2 id="color-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>The Color Selection module is comprised of 4 sections:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem><para><link linkend="kcmdisplay-preview">The color scheme
preview</link>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="kcmdisplay-widget-color">The current 
<guilabel>Widget Color</guilabel></link>.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="kcmdisplay-color-schemes">The available Color
Schemes</link>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="kcmdisplay-contrast">The contrast
slider</link>.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<note><para>A <emphasis>Widget</emphasis> is a commonly-used
programmer's term for referring to User Interface elements such as
buttons, menus, and scroll bars.  You can think of them as the
fundamental pieces that are assembled to make your
application.</para></note>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-preview">
<title>Preview</title>

<para>This section of the dialog demonstrates how a color scheme applies
to a sample selection of widgets. It provides you with a
<guilabel>preview</guilabel> of your current color choices.</para>

<para>A color scheme consists of a set of 18 colors. </para>

<para>Each of the widgets is labeled to help you identify how your
changes will impact the color scheme.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-widget-color">
<title><guilabel>Widget Color</guilabel></title>

<para>The currently selected member of the color scheme is shown in the
combo box. This widget color can be changed by clicking on the colored
box below the combo box. A color selection dialog will then appear, from
which you may select a new color. When you are happy with your color
selection, press <guibutton>OK</guibutton> in the color selection
dialog.  The color will be updated in the Preview Area.</para>

<para>You may select any member of the color scheme from the 
color combination box.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-contrast">
<title><guilabel>Contrast</guilabel> Slider</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Contrast</guilabel> slider allows you to change the
contrast between different shadings of the selected colors.</para>

<para>The preview area instantly updates to show the effect of your
change.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-color-schemes">
<title><guilabel>Color Scheme</guilabel></title>

<para>Various color schemes are supplied with &kde;, and you are free to 
define your own.</para> 

<para>The three major color components of each scheme are shown beside
the name in the list. To preview a scheme in the larger preview area,
click on its name in the list box. </para>

<para>You can use the &kde;-supplied Color Schemes as a starting point
to devise your own Scheme. Click on the <guibutton>Save
Scheme...</guibutton> button to store the color scheme under a new name,
then modify it. </para>

<para>When such a user-created Color Scheme is selected, changes to it
(as shown in the Preview) can be saved with the <guibutton>Save
Scheme...</guibutton> button; it can also be deleted with the
<guibutton>Remove Scheme</guibutton> button.</para>

<note><para>The &kde;-supplied Schemes themselves cannot be changed or
deleted.</para></note>

<para>You can use the <guibutton>Import Scheme...</guibutton> button to
add new entries to the list.  This might be color schemes that you
have created on another computer and saved, or color schemes you have
downloaded from a website.</para>

<para>You can choose if you want &kde; to apply the color scheme even
to non-&kde; applications by enabling the <guilabel>Apply colors to
non-KDE applications</guilabel>.  Not all applications will allow
this, but most do.</para>

</sect3>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
